You've opened the call, you've taken
control, and you're in the conversation.
Now comes Step 2, the Fact Find.
This is where you'll spend the vast majority
of the call.
The Fact Find is not an interrogation.
It's a conversation. You're genuinely trying
to understand what this person is going
through. And you are listening way more than
you're talking.
You have questions you need to cover, yeah.
But don't fire them off like you're reading
from a clipboard.
Weave them into a natural conversation.
It should feel like two people talking, not
a survey.
For property basics, you want to find out
what type of property it is.
Single family, or duplex, or whatever.
How many bedrooms and bathrooms?
What kind of condition it's in?
And I like to ask them to rate it on a scale
of 1 to 10, because it gives you a
quick picture. And when the last time any
major updates were done?
For ownership and decision making, you want
to confirm they're actually the owner.
Find out if there's anyone else on the title
or involved in the decision.
Ask if there's a mortgage on the property
and roughly what's owed.
For motivation and timeline, you want to know
what's going on with the property that has
them considering selling.
How long they've been thinking about it.
Whether there's a timeline they're working
with. And then this
question, which is one of the most powerful
questions you have. What would happen if you
didn't sell?
What does that look like?
That question forces the seller to
articulate the pain of not taking action.
And that pain? That's what drives deals.
That's what creates urgency.
Don't skip it. Let me talk about energy for
a second, because this matters more than you
probably think.
Your energy on the call matters more than
your words.
If you sound bored or flat or robotic, the
seller will check out in 30 seconds.
Doesn't matter how perfect your script is.
Even if it's your 100th call of the day,
every call should sound like it's your first.
Fresh energy, genuine interest, warmth.
Here's a trick that actually works.
Smile when you talk on the phone.
Literally, physically smile.
I know it sounds weird, but people can hear
it in your voice.
It changes your tone, your pace, everything.
Try it right now. Say, hi, how are you doing
today?
With a flat face. Now say it with a big
smile.
You can hear the difference, right?
Your sellers can too.
A few things I see new people mess up
consistently.
Rushing straight to the property.
Don't jump right into, tell me about the
house.
Build some rapport first.
Find out about them as a person before you
start talking square footage.
Talking too much.
You should be listening 80% of the time.
If you catch yourself going on a monologue,
just stop.
Ask a question. Reading the script like a
robot.
The script is a framework, not a
teleprompter.
Know the beats, know the flow, but deliver
it in your own voice.
If it sounds rehearsed, they're done.
Skipping the pen and paper thing.
I know it seems small, but it sets the tone
for the entire call.
Do it every single time.
And giving up after one weak response.
If they seem short or guarded at first,
that's totally normal.
They've probably been called by five
different people already today.
Be patient, be warm, and give them a reason
to keep talking.
All right, next up, you're going to get your
roleplay.
You're going to practice opening a call with
a warm inbound lead.
Someone who's curious, but a little guarded.
Time to put this stuff to work.